git init    - start tracking a project

git clone [link]    - clone a project from a repository

git status      - detects if there was changes mades in any file

git add --all or git add -A     - stages the entire project

git add .   - stages files on the directory (current directory, and everything inside it)

git add *   - stages only new or modified files, not deleted ones - stages all visible changes except for deleted files

git add filename.txt or git add Folder/filename.txt   - stage a specific file

git add *.txt   - stages all files from specific extension in the current directory, excluding deleted ones

git reset   - remove everything from the stage area

git commit -m "Message"     - save the work permanently with a message about what was changed

git reset HEAD~     - undo the last commit

git reset --hard    - restore everything and also deleted files (not sure how to use it yet)

git rm --force filename.txt     - completely delete the file from stage

git rm --cached filename.txt    - only removes it from stage, but keeps localy

git log      - print the all commits 

git log --oneline   - print the commits in a simpler way

git branch    - show how many branches there are

git branch newbranch     - create a new branch

git checkout newbranch      - switch to another branch

git merge newbranch -m      - as in main branch, merge main branch with the newbranch created, as an example

git checkout commit-id      - go back to a previous commit

git diff 1stcommitid 2ndcommitid        - show the differences between the two commits (recent commit id first, older one in second)

/// Push - Sending local changes to the remote
/// Fetch - Bringing remote changes into your local repository, but nor merging them
/// Pull - Fetching plus merging-so your working directory immediately reflects the remote changes

git push origin main    - send local changes to the remote branch

git restore filename.txt    - restore the file to the previous commit

git restore .   - restore the entire repository to the previous commit

git stash       - temporarily set aside your unfinished work, switch to another branch to do something

git stash pop      - all stashed temporarily work will be back on the branch

Note: moved on to a more basic approach since my objective now is only document my learning and I feel like there is too much information and commands that would only be used by a programmer.
Willing to learn more about git on the future and while I kept learning to code.
Video used to get the basics: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mAFoROnOfHs

Asked for an advice to AI to how to just document my learning for lectures and projects, saving the commands I'll use more bellow:

git pull        - pull remote changes (before you start working, this avoids that conflict entirely according to AI)
git status      - detects if there was changes mades in any file
git add .   - stages files on the directory (current directory, and everything inside it)
git commit -m "Message"     - save the work permanently with a message about what was changed
git push origin main    - send local changes to the remote branch

1. git pull — start of the day
2. ...code...
3. git add .
4. git commit -m "message"
5. git push